README.md, before:

# Noe: Kubernetes Mutating Webhook for Node Architecture Selection

**[Blog post announcing and explaining the effort behind Noe](https://medium.com/adevinta-tech-blog/transparently-providing-arm-nodes-to-4-000-engineers-c09c92314f2f)**

Noe is a [Kubernetes mutating webhook](https://kubernetes.io/docs/reference/access-authn-authz/extensible-admission-controllers/) that dynamically assigns node architectures to match the requirements of container images within a Pod. It simplifies mixed-architecture deployments (e.g. ARM and x86) by ensuring that Pods are scheduled on nodes capable of executing all their images.

![Overview diagram](/noe_global_diagram.svg)

## Features

- Automatically adjusts node affinities based on container images' supported architectures
- Improves deployment efficiency by removing the need for manual node selector configuration
- Facilitates seamless mixed-architecture deployments by ensuring compatibility between ARM and x86 nodes

## Running Tests

Run all tests using the following command:

```bash
go test ./...
```

## Installing Noe

Noe provides a [Helm](https://helm.sh/) chart, available exclusively from the code repository. The simplest way to install it is to use [ArgoCD](https://argo-cd.readthedocs.io/en/stable/) and define an application such as:

```yaml
apiVersion: argoproj.io/v1alpha1
kind: Application
spec:
  source:
    repoURL: https://github.com/adevinta/noe.git
    path: charts/noe
    targetRevision: HEAD
```

## Hinting preferred target architecture

By default, Noe will automatically select the appropriate architecture when only one is supported by all the containers in the Pod. 
If more than one is available, Noe will select the system-defined preferred one if available. This preference can be chosen in the command line for Noe (defaults to `amd64` if unspecified): 
```
./noe -preferred-arch amd64
```

This preference can also be overridden at the Pod level by adding the label:
```
labels:
  arch.noe.adevinta.com/preferred: amd64
```

Noe will always prioritize a running Pod, so if the preference is not supported by all the containers in the Pod, the common architecture will be selected.

Commit message:

Schedulable archs flag (#68)
* Add `cluster-schedulable-archs` flag

 # Context

In some cases we have seen that the common architectures of the images
do not match the default preferred architecture. In those cases, one
of the common architectures is selected, which may not match the
available architectures in the cluster. In those cases, the Pod is
always pending scheduling waiting for a node that will never exist.

 # Approach

Allow passing a comma-separated list of architectures schedulable in
the cluster. As we detect image's architecture support, we ignore
those architectures that have not been specified as supported by the
cluster.

This new flag is optional and defaults to empty string (which disables
the feature and keeps the prior behaviour).

 ## Startup fail if preferred architecture is not part of the supported architectures

Startup will fail if the preferred architecture selected via
commandline is not part of the list of schedulable architectures to
prevent misconfigurations.

 ## Ignore preferred arch at Pod level if unsupported

If a preferred architecture is indicated at Pod level, but it does not
belong to the list of schedulable architectures, we ignore the preference
and treat it as not specified. A log line is generated in that case.

 # Non-goal

 ## Detect architectures present in the cluster

We do not want to prevent scheduling of Pods with architectures
supported but which have no nodes currently in the cluster
(downscaled) to avoid interfering with scale from 0 set ups.

Change-Id: I0b85ab61fb3a267b41d938bd90f2e2d2050e5447
Co-authored-by: Fabián Sellés Rosa <1088313+Fsero@users.noreply.github.com>

* fixup! Add `cluster-schedulable-archs` flag

* fixup! Add `cluster-schedulable-archs` flag

---------

Co-authored-by: Fabián Sellés Rosa <1088313+Fsero@users.noreply.github.com>

README.md, after:

# Noe: Kubernetes Mutating Webhook for Node Architecture Selection

**[Blog post announcing and explaining the effort behind Noe](https://medium.com/adevinta-tech-blog/transparently-providing-arm-nodes-to-4-000-engineers-c09c92314f2f)**

Noe is a [Kubernetes mutating webhook](https://kubernetes.io/docs/reference/access-authn-authz/extensible-admission-controllers/) that dynamically assigns node architectures to match the requirements of container images within a Pod. It simplifies mixed-architecture deployments (e.g. ARM and x86) by ensuring that Pods are scheduled on nodes capable of executing all their images.

![Overview diagram](/noe_global_diagram.svg)

## Features

- Automatically adjusts node affinities based on container images' supported architectures
- Improves deployment efficiency by removing the need for manual node selector configuration
- Facilitates seamless mixed-architecture deployments by ensuring compatibility between ARM and x86 nodes

## Running Tests

Run all tests using the following command:

```bash
go test ./...
```

## Installing Noe

Noe provides a [Helm](https://helm.sh/) chart, available exclusively from the code repository. The simplest way to install it is to use [ArgoCD](https://argo-cd.readthedocs.io/en/stable/) and define an application such as:

```yaml
apiVersion: argoproj.io/v1alpha1
kind: Application
spec:
  source:
    repoURL: https://github.com/adevinta/noe.git
    path: charts/noe
    targetRevision: HEAD
```

## Hinting preferred and supported target architectures

By default, Noe will automatically select the appropriate architecture when only one is supported by all the containers in the Pod. 
If more than one is available, Noe will select the system-defined preferred one if available. This preference can be chosen in the command line for Noe (defaults to `amd64` if unspecified): 
```
./noe -preferred-arch amd64
```

This preference can also be overridden at the Pod level by adding the label:
```
labels:
  arch.noe.adevinta.com/preferred: amd64
```

Noe will always prioritize a running Pod, so if the preference is not supported by all the containers in the Pod, the common architecture will be selected.

You can restrict the acceptable common architectures in the command line for Noe:
```
./noe -cluster-schedulable-archs amd64,arm64
```

If you specify both a preferred architecture and a list of supported architectures in the command line, the default architecture must be part of the list. Otherwise Noe will fail to start.

If a preferred architecture is specified at the Pod level and is not compatible with the supported architectures listed in the command line, it will be ignored.
